All right, welcome back to
the last exercise of the day.
What a miracle it is that
you made it to this side.
[LAUGH] All right, so
we want to protect some routes.
One thing that's important for
you to know is that
Remix is responsible for
managing the network chasm.
So it's the one that's gonna be calling
your loaders to get the post data,
to get the code, to navigate between
all of these different routes.
So if we start here, we go to Blog Posts,
we go to My First Post,
we go to Admin, and
each one of these routes has its own
loader defined, as well as its code.
And Remix is rather than saying,
okay, call the parent loader,
then call its child, and
then call its child, and so
on all the way down the line, we're going
to say, just run them all concurrently.
That way, it's as fast as possible.
You don't have a stepping stone,
you have a waterfall,
it just goes right down to the bottom.
This makes it faster.
This also makes things
a little challenging for
us for
what we're trying to accomplish now.
And that is, we want to make it so
that no user who is not an admin,
who is not the admin user,
should be able to see this admin link, or
even get to this admin page, or performing
these admin actions, or any of that.
Because if they're run at the same time,
then you can't just do the check in
one place, and say, if they're not
an admin, get them out of here.
You have to do the check in
every single one of the loaders.
This is not great.
However, the Remix team acknowledges this,
and
has some really good ideas for
how to deal with this specific problem.
And so that will come eventually
probably in the form of another export,
where you'll just, again,
we haven't shipped anything, so
I do hesitate to ever
say anything about that.
But you'd go to the parent route, and
you'd have some sort of export like
beforeLoader, or something, or
like dangerously run before loader.
Because you're you're putting
yourself on the slow path,
everything will be at least
as slow as this is, right?
So I'm not sure what it will be, but
there will be a solution for
this particular problem.
But that said, you don't have to wait for
this solution if this really bothers
you a lot, because, again, Remix
integrates with other node frameworks.
And so you could have an express
middleware that runs before Remix even
sees the request that handles this and
boots them out if they're trying to access
or do something that
you don't want them to.
So if it was really important to you,
you could have something that
sits before Remix to handle this.
And another thing is, most of the time,
you actually are going to do something
with the admin user, or with whatever
user you're trying to access.
So only this user has the power
to edit their tweets,
if only we could be so lucky.
Then you're going to first get that user,
and then you're gonna try and
edit the tweet.
And it's not gonna work, because that user
doesn't have access to the tweet anyway.
So typically, you don't have to
intentionally add these protections.
They will just naturally happen
as you're accessing data, and
trying to go get the user's info.
But in our case, actually,
that is not the case.
All we need is some fancy
require admin user function that
we're gonna write to just make
sure that the admin user or
the user performing this action or
loading this data is the admin user.
Okay, so with all of that said, and
one other thing that I didn't
mention also is that when we go,
yeah, I don't have a link
that'll send us to this.
But when you navigate between,
well, yeah, I do, here we go.
So when I navigate between these,
you see that I'm loading some data for
this route, but I'm not loading the list
of posts for the parent route, right?
So there are also plenty of situations
where the child loader will run, but
the parent loader will not.
And so that's another reason why you
can't depend on the parent loader,
cuz sometimes the child
just runs by itself.
So that's why we have to
do things in this way.
So we're gonna create a function
called requireAdminUser.
And we'll say make a function called
requireAdminUser that takes a Request,
and this request object is going
to have our user's information.
And we actually already
have a requireUser,
which will pull the userId
out of the request.
If you look at that, that is going
to get the userId from the request,
so we can go to get userId.
Ultimately, that comes to the Session.
The session comes out of the cookie, so
that's how the authentication
is working in this app.
We have a cookie, and
then we get the USER_SESSION or
the userId out of that session so
that we can get the user's ID.
Then we pull that from getUserById,
so now, we have the user.
And if there is no user, in this case,
then we're gonna log them out.
We're gonna say, hey, logout,
go get me that response.
This is going to get the session and
destroy that session.
This effectively sets the cookie
to a max age of zero, so
that the browser will delete the cookie.
So that's what logout is gonna do
in the case that there is no user.
So that is what we're going to do.
We're gonna build on top
of all of this work to
get our user from requireUser
with the request.
If no user exists,
then we're going to throw.
We're basically gonna do, actually, you
know what, we don't need to worry about
that, cuz that's handled for us,
so there will always be a user.
But if that user is not the admin user,
then we need to throw.
So we'll say, user.email is not,
wait, [LAUGH],
wait, user email, thank you TypeScript.
You know how long we would have spent
debugging that if we didn't have
Typescript?
Yeah, you got to use TypeScript, folks.
Okay, user.email.
So if the user.email is not
equal to our ENV.ADMIN_EMAIL,
then we're going to throw
await logout(request);.
We'll just boot them off
over to the login screen, so
that's where this redirects them to home.
We could also change this to a redirect
to redirect them to the login,
specifically to the login screen, but
yeah, I think, we'll just logout.
Get them out of there, they're not
supposed to be here, you're not allowed.
Otherwise we'll return user;.
Cool, and we'll export this.
All right, so with that now,
I can go to my admin route,
and I'm going to await
requireAdminUser with the request, and
we're gonna get that request
from our loaderArgs.
And this route, the admin route,
specifically, is now protected.
User should not be able to
get to our post/adminRoute.
But again, they can curl a URL,
they can do whatever they want to,
cuz each one of these are API endpoints.
And so we can't just protect this and
assume everything else is protected.
So we're going to also go to our index,
we'll add our export
function called loader.
This needs to be async.
This will take our
([request): LoaderArgs),
And await requireAdminUser
with the request.
And then, important note that
a loader must return a response.
So we're going to return a JSON
response that just has nothing.
Okay, and then finally for the slug, Here,
we gonna request and
await requireAdminUser.
Oops, Okay, now,
we got all the things protected.
Well, if I come over here, and
when it did a refresh, it's like, hey,
you gotta get out of here.
So let's go log in,
kody@remix.run, Kody loves you.
And there we go.
I can get access to this, but
if I try when I'm not logged in,
it'll send me over to login.
Neato fredo burrito,
one other thing I forgot,
the action also needs to have this
protection, await requireAdminUser,
cuz again, somebody could curl this
directly, so you do have to be careful.
All right, so it's not very nice for
users of our little blog to see this
admin link, and be like, sweet,
I can go be an admin now, and
then get sent straight over to login.
I think that's kinda silly.
And it's also not very nice for
us as admins to look at a post,
and be like, I need to make a change.
Now, I guess,
I'll have to go to the admin place.
It would be nice if I had a little
edit link if I'm an admin, right?
We're progressively enhancing based on
the information that we have, right?
So we're going to make
a Handy Dandy Notebook, no, just kidding.
[LAUGH] I heard a couple of chuckles,
you know what I'm talking about.
Yeah, we'll put this in utils.
And right after use optional user,
I'm gonna export a function
called useOptionalAdminUser.
And this is going to be a User or
undefined, and
I'm going to get my user
from useOptionalUser.
And if that (user?.email
is !== ENV.ADMIN_EMAIL),
is that nice that we have the invite
everywhere, server client all over?
That's kinda nice.
If it's not, then we'll return undefined,
otherwise, we'll return the user.
So now, we have a way to get
the admin user in our components.
If the user is the admin,
then we'll get them.
So now, we can come over to,
let's see, our post listing page,
where we list all of these, and
we're rendering that admin link.
And we'll just say, useOptionalAdminUser,
get our admin user, or yeah, adminUser.
And we'll only render this if we
have the admin user, otherwise,
we won't render anything.
And yes, I'm a big fan of ternaries,
don't you bring this into my codebase,
no thanks.
I've got a blog post about that actually,
if you want to know that.
Okay, sweet, so now, if I'm not logged in,
no admin link, if I am, admin link.
Ta-da, that's nice.
Last thing that I wanna
do is on the slug here,
let's say useOptionalAdminUser( ),
const adminUser.
And we're gonna copy this link,
cuz it's nice and
styled the way I want, adminUser ?.
So if we are the admin user,
then we'll render out a link.
Oops, I'll call it edit, otherwise, no.
Bring in the link, and
yeah, that should do it.
[SOUND] Now, we got edit,
all right, that's right.
This needs to go to,
/posts/admin/, post-slup, there we go.
Okay, edit, ta-da, so that's nice,
nice little enhancement for us.
But again, it is only for us, not for
any people just reading your post.
Last thing I think I wanna show about this
is because all this authentication stuff
was built for us,
you didn't get a chance to see,
how are we getting an admin user and
our components and stuff.
That's a little bit beyond the scope
of a Remix fundamentals workshop, but
I will show that code to you,
because I think this will give you maybe
a little preview of how this works.
This, again, is all generated for
you by the Indie stack, and
so, yeah, you can just use that.
But the way that this works is, first, the
root is responsible for getting the user's
data from the server to the client,
so it gets it in through the loader.
But you'll notice the route is
actually not using the user at all,
there's nothing in here about the user.
So in our utils,
we have a function called useMatchesData,
just a handy little utility that uses this
useMatches function from Remix run React.
So this will tell you all of the matching
routes that are active right now.
So here are all of our matching routes,
and
each one of these elements in the array
has some information about the route,
specifically the route ID as well
as the loader data for that route.
So that's what we're doing here,
is we're saying, hey,
I want you to find me the data for
the route that matches this ID.
Now, you can look at what the IDs are, but
in our case, where is the use?
Yeah, in our case, the root route,
the ID for root route is simply root.
So we say, useMatchesData,
get me the data for the root loader.
And now, I've got my data.
If that data doesn't exist for
some reason, or
the data.user is not a user type, so
we're doing some runtime assertion here,
that's an assertion function in
TypeScript, fancy TypeScript magic there.
So if they're not a user, then just return
undefined;, otherwise, return data.user.
So that's how we get the optional user.
And then we actually also have a user
which will throw an error if there's
no user return, so you could actually
use this on pages that are alike.
There should absolutely be a user here,
if there's not, then something's wrong.
And now, your types are a little nicer,
because you don't have to do an undefined
check, so that's all that's all about.
And so
we're just built on top of that to check.
In addition to checking
that the user exists,
also we want to make sure
that email is correct.
All right, and
that is the last exercise for our day.
What questions do you
have about this exercise?
We'll get into general questions
here in a little bit, but
what questions do you have for
exercise ten?
>> Regarding the useMatchesData, will it
throw if it doesn't match anything for?
Yeah, so useMatchesData,
because we've implemented ourselves,
there won't be any throwing going on here,
it'll just return undefined.
Yeah, you could though.
[LAUGH]